solemn consideration, when I enter a great city by night, that every
any of the burial-places of this city through which I pass, is there
a forehead with a singular capacity (remembering how young and smooth
“More fit for that, I think, than to remain in this city, so dreadful to
he was free, were questions which no sagacity could have solved. They
illuminated coffee-houses, and theatre-doors, to one of the city
exposed on Temple Bar with an insensate brutality and ferocity worthy of
tolerated some person in that capacity, and time and tide had drifted
simplicity, four years ago. He had asked the prisoner, aboard the Calais
rendered suit and service to Stryver in that humble capacity.
the first spray of it in its advance had begun to overwhelm the city.
perseverance. In the fair city of this vision, there were airy galleries
this time to be, beneath the service of her eccentricity, one of those
vivacity. “Pray, Doctor Manette,” said Mr. Darnay, as they sat under the
attention, its capacity of helping such a look was to be found in the
sometimes made itself audible, even in that deaf city and dumb age,
into evening, so much life in the city ran into death according to rule,
there was any opportunity or capacity of sacrifice in it, I would
all done in open day, in the open streets of this city of Paris; and
cheerfulness and felicity with the dire endurance that was over.
some misty way asking himself, “Why not?” The sagacity of the man of
“But I don’t know how to originate, in such a case. If your sagacity,
depth, and overflowed the city to that point. Alarm-bells ringing, drums
perches--when the cry seemed to go up, all over the city, “Bring him
every dull little pane of glass. The general scarcity of everything,
disorganised country, a city that may not be even safe for you.”
interfering with. As to its being a disorganised city, if it were not a
disorganised city there would be no occasion to send somebody from our
House here to our House there, who knows the city and the business, of
into the city for peasants’ carts bringing in supplies, and for similar
turned and rode away without entering the city.
counting its measurement, and the roar of the city arose like muffled
and counting; and the roar of the city changed to this extent--that it
the usual night hum of the city, with now and then an indescribable ring
“My dear friend, I have a charmed life in this city. I have been
the safest dwelling-place in the distracted state of the city. But, the
he were to be released, he could not hope to leave the city, Mr. Lorry
saved, had astounded him scarcely less than the mad ferocity against
unnatural silence of a whole city, the executioner showed the people the
honest men. The lowest, cruelest, and worst populace of a city, never
“Now, Mr. Cruncher,” said Miss Pross, whose eyes were red with felicity;
own street. Let me take your arm, Miss Pross. This is not a good city,
In a city dominated by the axe, alone at night, with natural sorrow
interest in the whole life and death of the city settling down to its
the Saint Antoine suburb. It was not difficult for one who knew the city
enables me to pass out of this city. Look at it. You see--Sydney Carton,
to roll that afternoon on the life-tide of the city to the boundless
and Jerry, who were at liberty to leave the city, should leave it at
with the vigorous tenacity of love, always so much stronger than hate,
They said of him, about the city that night, that it was the
out of its present use. I see a beautiful city and a brilliant people
